Add `Vocaloid Mapping Contest` news post and wiki article (#9235)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2023/2023-05-01-vocaloid-mapping-contest.md.md

| --: | :-- |
| Announcement | 2023-05-01 |
| Submission | 2023-05-01 to 2023-05-31 |
| Judging | 2023-06-01 to 2023-06-24 |
| Results | 2023-07-01 |

## Prizes

What kind of contest doesn't have prizes! We have to reward you for your hard work in some way, yeah?

| Placing | Prize(s) |
| :-: | :-- |
| 1st place | 6 months of osu!supporter, [*Elite Mapper* contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points), *VMC Winner* profile badge, assistance in the ranking process |
| 2nd place | 2 months of osu!supporter, [*Elite Mapper* contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
| 3rd place | 1 month of osu!supporter, [*Elite Mapper* contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |

This contest is created by and for vocal synth fans to elevate the genre (and those who map it) to new heights. All mappers who participate will receive constructive feedback from some of the most well-known vocal synth mappers in the community, and that's a prize in itself!

## Rules

Believe it or not, contests have rules to keep everything fair.

- **Submissions must be for the osu! ruleset only.** Comparing beatmaps of different modes in a judging scenario is unfortunately not realistic.

> - **Submissions must use one of the [selected songs](#songs)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Submissions must use one of the [selected songs](#songs).**
```

- **Submissions must be in `.osz` format.**
- **Beatmaps should abide by the [ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria).** While we can be forgiving for mistakes, submissions that could not be ranked without major changes will be disqualified.
- **Submissions must not be publicly revealed until after the results are announced.**
- **Excluding metadata, submissions must not include anything that could reveal your identity.** Metadata will be anonymised before submissions are relayed to judges.
- **Collaborations are not allowed**. This is a solo contest.
- **Submissions must not include storyboards or videos.**

> - **Do not edit any settings in the .osu that would not be possible through the editor itself.** You are permitted to change any difficulty settings, backgrounds, green lines, SV, hitsounds, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Your submission must not have any edits to the .osu that would not be possible through the editor.** You are permitted to change any difficulty settings, backgrounds, green lines, SV, hitsounds, etc.
```
fits the style of other rules

> - **You must submit only one difficulty.** Only one entry is allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Your submission must have only one difficulty.**
```
if you're using the osu contest listing, it's implied that only one submission is allowed anyway

<audio controls>
    <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/104/osz/Omoi%20-%20Ohne%20Herz.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

### MuryokuP - My Savior (2:49 / 190 BPM)

[Download the beatmap template here!](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/120/Unfinished%20Eden/MuryokuP%20-%20My%20Savior.osz)

<audio controls>
    <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/120/Unfinished%20Eden/MuryokuP%20-%20My%20Savior.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

### Yunosuke - Ziqqurat (3:52 / 163 BPM)

[Download the beatmap template here!](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/244/Ziqqurat/Yunosuke%20-%20Ziqqurat.osz)

<audio controls>
    <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/244/Ziqqurat/Yunosuke%20-%20Ziqqurat.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

### Rohi - Hitotsu no Chikai yo (2:35 / 130 BPM)

[Download the beatmap template here!](https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/82/osz/Rohi%20-%20Hitotsu%20no%20Chikai%20yo,%20Eien%20no%20Uta%20to%20Nare.osz)

<audio controls>
    <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/82/osz/Rohi%20-%20Hitotsu%20no%20Chikai%20yo,%20Eien%20no%20Uta%20to%20Nare.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

---

## Submission

> Once your beatmap is ready, head to the [contest listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/) to submit your map! After the submission period closes, judging will begin. Find out more details about the judges and the judging criteria on the [contest's wiki page](osu.ppy.sh/wiki/contests/VMC/1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your beatmap is ready, head to the [contest listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/177) to submit your map! After the submission period closes, judging will begin. Find out more details about the judges and the judging criteria on the [contest's wiki page](osu.ppy.sh/wiki/contests/VMC/1).
```
not finalized yet but it's probably going to be this

---
layout: post
title: "Vocaloid Mapping Contest"
date: 2023-05-01 12:00:00 +0000
---

> The premier mapping event for all vocaloid appreciators is here with the first iteration of the **Vocaloid Mapping Contest!**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The premier mapping event for all vocaloid appreciators is here with the first iteration of the Vocaloid Mapping Contest!
```

> ![](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1092234806479298680/1096272980310495272/banner_e.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](/wiki/Contests/VMC/1/img/banner.png)
```

> The [**Vocaloid Mapping Contest (VMC)**](/wiki/Contests/VMC) is all about finding and promoting vocaloid songs and artists that have fallen through the cracks. Our [prototype contest last year](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1604262?n=1) was themed around Hatsune Miku for their 15th birthday, while this contest has expanded to a variety of fun vocaloid songs!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [**Vocaloid Mapping Contest (VMC)**](/wiki/Contests/VMC) is all about finding and promoting vocaloid songs and artists that have fallen through the cracks. Our [prototype contest last year](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1604262?n=1) was themed around Hatsune Miku for her 15th birthday, while this contest has expanded to a variety of fun vocaloid songs!
```

Your goal for this contest: **use [one of these songs](#songs) to create the best vocaloid beatmap possible** (as determined by our [judging panel](osu.ppy.sh/wiki/contests/VMC/1#Staff_and_Judges)).

> And to make things more interesting, a special guest judge has joined us: **legendary vocaloid mapper
> [*tutuhaha*](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/546991)**!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And to make things more interesting, a special guest judge has joined us: **legendary vocaloid mapper [tutuhaha](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/546991)**!
```

Once your beatmap is ready, head to the [contest listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/) to submit your map! After the submission period closes, judging will begin. Find out more details about the judges and the judging criteria on the [contest's wiki page](osu.ppy.sh/wiki/contests/VMC/1).

---

And that should be everything you need to know to get started!

For the most up-to-date info about the contest, keep the [**Vocaloid Mapping Contest** contest wiki page](osu.ppy.sh/wiki/contests/VMC/1) bookmarked. Feel free to also join the [VAT (Vocaloid Appreciation Team) Discord server](https://discord.gg/EruvDHaReY) to receive immediate updates on the VMC (as well as future vocaloid events), feedback on vocaloid maps, info on collaborative vocaloid mapping projects, and more!

In future contests, we will choose songs based around a specific song theme, such as an artist, genre, vocaloid, etc, or even a map/limitation theme, such as "collaboration" or "circles only". Our goal is to avoid picking songs that have been ranked in osu! within the last ~10 years, and we try to pick songs that are particularly relevant and timeless.

We look forward to seeing your maps!

> —  [-White](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/16276548)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
—-White
```
